speak to Al jazer senior political
analyst Marwan bishar Marwan is joining
us from Paris let's first talk about the
meeting with Trump and Netanyahu Maran
what are netanyahu's political
calculations as he meets with the
Democratic Leadership as we've seen and
he's now expected to meet with the
Republican presidential
candidate I think he would like to play
on their differences and try to get in
as much as possible from either party I
think clearly he's for the time being
has to uh hedge his
he doesn't know who's going to win in 3
months and so he's going to have to
appease both parties as he did in his
speech to Congress by speaking so kindly
to uh Biden's uh support for his war
crimes and speaking so kindly to
Trump's uh violation of international
law by recognizing Jerusalem as Israel
capital and the Golden Heights as Annex
Israeli territory so he's trying his
best to appease both parties so he
wouldn't be accused once again as he was
in 2015 when he spoke then to Congress
of being a very divisive figure and
taking the Republican side he's trying
this time to be a bit more clever his
problem is that all three that he's met
or will be meeting also Trump meaning
camea Harris Joe Biden and Donald Trump
are telling him to finish up and in
Florida he's going to be hearing that
from Trump finish up except that my
guess is that Trump will probably try to
sell it as it's his idea he will say it
quite loud in public and once there is a
ceasefire he will claim to be his own
achievement yeah Marana and speaking of
I mean finishing up we also heard
comments from Harris who said that she
will not be silent on the suffering in
Gaza and it was time to end the war but
then also reiterated her commitment to
Israel and out of is Israel there's been
some Furious reaction to her comments
I'm accusing her of showing gaps between
the positions of the US and Israel is
there any reason to believe in your
opinion that policy towards Israel under
a haris presidency will
change I think there will be a bit of a
Nuance look uh what what Biden has done
the past 10 months it's really almost
unprecedented I mean the foolishness the
Folly and the farce of his support
unconditionally for a genocide the way
he did that's really unprecedented I'm
not sure even even a Trump would do it
I'm not sure a Harris would do it I'm
not sure anyone will or should be doing
it because he really went out of his way
in every possible way not to support
Israel and here is the Nuance the Nuance
is not just about the supporting Israel
it's about supporting a fascist fanatic
government that's involved in war crimes
and is on trial for genocide at the
international court of justice so so the
issue here for CA Harris is can she show
support for Israel as traditionally is
the case in America from everywhere you
know from Obama back to
Reagan but at the same time show enough
um Independence and rationality to be
able to criticize the Israeli government
and that's where her phrase but I won't
be silent I will support Israel but I
won't be silent about the policies the
war crimes Etc of its government and I
think this Nuance is important and she
probably would be capable or is capable
of doing that because she's not again
she's not as ideological as Biden she's
not as Zionist as Biden and she's not as
interventionist terms of Middle East and
elsewhere as Biden she's far more
pragmatic I would say right and when it
comes to the UK mwan is it now going up
against the US when we've heard this
announcement just earlier this hour the
UK saying that it will not pursue its
objection anymore to the international
criminal court who's issuing arrest
warrants for the Israeli leaders and how
significant is
this you know I'm GNA tell you uh my
educated guest based on my instinct more
than any specific information but just
judging from uh K stammer talking to
Biden and where Biden is today in terms
of his relationship with Nan and what I
just told you in terms of distinguishing
between supporting Israel and and
supporting Netanyahu I would say the
labor government in Britain is just
simply doing something that is just
basic right meaning un stupid the stupid
policy of sunak by getting involved in
something that is absolutely none of
UK's uh business I mean the IC will
decide what the icc's business is it
doesn't need London or the sunna
government to tell it what its business
is and that's what the labor government
is saying and I think in this case the
labor in the UK like the Democrats in
Washington whether it's Canada hris or
Biden understand that supporting Israel
is not the same as supporting this
Reckless war criminal called Nel and and
slowly but surely they are learning the
lesson that you can support Israel if
you want but don't tie your political
future and certainly don't tie your
credibility and standing in the Middle
East and in the rest of the world by
coupling your policies to that of a war
criminal called Benjamin n all right
thank you so much Bish joining us from
Paris thank you